hey what's going on everybody this is DJ
President of the United States and I am
here today to introduce you to the new
Gemini control series of USB digital
music controllers this brand new from
Gemini and you've got a control one and
a control six now what these units are
is they are tactile control surfaces
that you connect to your computer and
you use in conjunction with virtual DJ
software and what these do is they
provide you with the physical two decks
and a mixer configuration that most DJ's
are used to and they allow you to
manipulate the controls of the software
on your computer using the 46 buttons 5
faders and 18 rotary knobs basically
what these do is if you're a laptop DJ
plug this into your laptop and it gives
you a control surface that you can use
for quick access and find control of the
functions that you're used to now these
are not stand alone units they do
require a connection to a computer pc or
mac and virtual DJ software to run these
units both ship with a virtual DJ
limited edition so they're ready to go
right out of the box now though these
might look like old-school mixers they
are light years beyond an old-school
mixer you've got your dual touch
sensitive jog wheels that you can use to
manipulate your menus as well as the
music you've got really advanced looping
sampling tempo time stretching and
effects features on here one of the
things that I really like about this is
you basically have got a one-button sync
you can press that will automatically
sync the next track to the track that
you're playing so you can have a perfect
mix every time using an automated system
just one button ok so we've got two
units here the control one in the
control six what's the same is that they
have the exact same buttons knobs
sliders jog wheel they work in exactly
the same way that USB up to your
computer they come with the same
software the only difference is that the
control one hooks up and uses your
computer sound card to output the sound
so typically you would just plug an
eighth inch jack and put that out to
your speakers or mixer the control
sticks has an internal sound card and it
outputs through balanced XLR outputs
it's also got microphone and headphone
inputs on the front on the back you've
got dual line or phono inputs you've
also got record master and booth RCA
outputs so really the only difference
between the six and the one is the six
offers more connectivity the control
series ships with virtual DJ limited
edition software and it works great out
of the box it's completely ready to go
you can upgrade to the full virtual DJ
off of their website they've also got
some really great documentation there
but you can upgrade for 20 days at no
charge to virtual DJ full addition to
see if you like it or even if you need
it honestly i would say that for the
vast majority of djs out there the
addition that ships for free with the
units is going to be plenty for what you
want to do well setting up and using
these units could not be easier of the
day that I got him I had them up and
running in less than 10 minutes and most
of that was just installing the software
these are plug-and-play you really don't
need any experience the interface is
really intuitive learning the software
is a snap it's just a great combination
of software and hardware if you're a
laptop DJ getting one of these units
will really just open up a whole
new world of possibilities for you and
ease of use my favorite feature on here
is the beat sinking basically if you've
got a track playing on one all you have
to do is hit the sync button on the
other track it automatically beat
matches it to the quarter tone and the
BPM move your slider over eat your pitch
button that releases it this track then
gradually moves back to its native BPM
making a flawless mix on these is
absolutely simple it's simply button
slider button you can't go wrong with
these I've never used a unit like these
I was up and running like instantly it
was just intuitive and it's a lot of fun
okay so that's a real quick introduction
to these units here you know they're
designed and engineered in the USA if
you got any questions about them go to
Gemini DJ calm I'll be back with more
information about some of the advanced
features these are a ton of fun I say
pick one up right away
you